The scripture for today is the Gospel of Luke, chapter one, verse 26 through 38.
Now please stand for the reading of scripture.
Advent ends in celebration, but it begins in waiting.
So we will stand in unbroken silence, identifying with the plight of the prophets, remembering the redemption we still await.
The redemption our world awaits.
and the God who promises to come again, bringing heaven to earth.
Then the silence will be broken by the reading of Scripture.
The written word breaking silence among us just as the living word broke the long silence with the birth of Jesus.
Now we wait.
In the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy, God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth, a town in Galilee, to a virgin pledged to be married to a man named Joseph, a descendant of David.
The virgin's name was Mary.
The angel went to her and said, Greetings, you who are highly favored.
The Lord is with you.
Mary was greatly troubled at his words and wondered what kind of greeting this might be, but the angel said to her, do not be afraid, Mary, you have found favor with God.
You will conceive and give words to his son and you are to call him Jesus.
He will be great and will be the son of the most high.
The Lord God will give him the throne of his father, David, and he will reign over Jacob's descendants forever.
His kingdom will never end.
How will this be?
Mary asked the angel, since I am a virgin,
The angel answered, the Holy Spirit will come on you.
The power of the most high will overshadow you.
So the holy one to be born would be called the son of God.
Even Elizabeth, your relative, is going to have a child in her old age.
And she who has said to be unable to conceive is in her sixth month.
For no word from God will ever fail.
I am the Lord's servant, Mary answered.
May your word to me be fulfilled.
Then the angel left her.
This is the word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
So I'd like to begin this morning with a parable of sorts.
I was flying home with my three boys, just the four of us, the first week of this Advent season.
And we boarded the plane early before the rest of the passengers, like they always call families with young kids, which by the way, just as a brief aside,
That policy makes no sense to me at all.
Everyone boarding the flight is just thinking, I just want to get a spot with my back in the overhead compartment, except parents with young kids who are thinking, I just want to be in this tube constraining my children for as little time as possible.
And then they're like, get in here 30 minutes before everybody else does.
And then you have to watch
The people who have unfortunately been assigned the seat next to you get hit with that realization and the disappointment wash over them while they're boarding.
Someone, anyway.
Amos, my three-year-old, claimed the window seat in our row.
He always wants the window seat.
And this was a cross-country flight.
It was taking off just at dusk on the east coast.
And as we made our sense, the sun was setting.
And Amos has his face pinned against the window going, whoa, look at the sunset.
Can you see that at a volume that is entirely socially unacceptable for an airplane?
And so I'm kind of embarrassed.
I turn to look around at the other passengers to apologize for my son's excitement at the dazzling nature of the sunset outside.
To my utter surprise, no one seems to notice.
Because already, just a few minutes into the flight, everyone else's shade is drawn, and every other face is lit up by a glow, not the glow of the sun that gives light to the world but the glow of an artificial scream by which they are distracting themselves, passing the time until we land in Portland, and it struck me.
Just how quickly in human history we've gone from the miracle of flight to the drag of travel, just closing off the outside world to retreat, pacifying ourselves into some form of entertainment to pass the minutes.
Can you imagine if someone had told the Wright brothers that within a hundred years of when they were wetting themselves in excitement and fear on a beach in North Carolina at Untakeoff,
that everyone else would be yawning and closing the shade.
Can you imagine how much someone would pay for Amos' window seat in Jesus' first-century world?
Or can you imagine if we just announced, hey, we're shutting down the airline industry, how much someone would pay for that seat if this was the last flight in human history?
So there I was sitting at the beginning of another Advent season, Amos attentive to the true light and dazzled by it.
All the rest of us grown too old, too numb, too distracted by our artificial lights to be dazzled by the real thing.
And that, the child on a cross-country flight saying something so simple and so profound to the rest of us, if only we had ears to hear, has everything to do with the enunciation.
That's the fancy title for the scripture that we just read a moment ago.
Annunciation is the English translation of a Latin word for announcement.
It just means announcement.
The announcement of the angel Gabriel to the Virgin Mary goes something like this.
The Holy Spirit will come on you and the power of the Most High will overshadow you so that the Holy one to be born will be called the Son of God.
That announcement has been set apart, highlighted, and titled since early church history because it is among the most loaded statements in the entire Bible.
In fact, the Annunciation is the whole Bible compressed into a single announcement.
Let me show you what I mean.
First, this announcement harkens back to creation.
The Holy Spirit will come on you and the power of the Most High will overshadow you is a biblical cue.
Genesis chapter 1 verse 1.
In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth.
Now the earth was formless and empty.
Darkness was over the surface of the deep and the spirit of God was hovering over the waters.
So the opening lines of Jesus' story are meant to draw to mind the opening lines of the whole story, just as the Holy Spirit hovered over the waters of chaos to bring light out of darkness.
So the same Holy Spirit is hovering over this present chaos to bring light out of darkness.
And that's more than just the poetic wink of a seasoned writer.
It's a profound claim about the child in Mary's womb.
The whole reason this announcement begins by harkening back to creation is because creation did not go as planned.
Creation came apart when a fallen angel told a lie.
Did God really say you must not eat from any tree in the garden?
The crafty lie woven by a fallen angel back in Genesis wasn't a lie about forbidden fruit, it was a lie about the love of God.
The serpent questions and critiques Eve's trust in God until he's planted the seed of a lie in her imagination.
Maybe God doesn't know the way to blessing.
Maybe his definition of abundant life isn't as dialed in as yours is.
Maybe he's holding out on you to some degree.
The serpent takes aim at Eve's trust in God until she reaches for the very love that she's already been freely and unconditionally given by her own effort.
And that's what sin is.
It's an attempt to achieve what I've already been given, to become by achievement who I am by grace, to earn the belovedness God freely gave me before I even had a chance to earn it or lose it.
When Eve reached for the forbidden fruit in response to the fallen angels lie, she lost both God's identity and her own.
You see sin is a lie that strips us of our freely given beloved identity.
And so in reaction, Adam and Eve cover up, they clowed themselves in fig leaves, they put it on a preferred
presentable self and the exposure that sin leaves us and we reach and grab for whatever we can to feel whole, to feel beloved in the way that we were at first but lost.
I reach for image or accolades, pleasure, security, whatever.
I just dress myself up and some misguided search for love.
All of that just set off by a lie from my fallen angel.
But the very creation that came apart when a fallen angel told a lie is repaired when a heavenly angel tells the truth.
The Annunciation reaches all the way back to creation to claim that what God is doing in the prayer closet of a rural Palestinian teenager is every bit as profound as what God was doing on the first page of the Bible.
The Annunciation reaches back to creation to make the claim of recreation.
Like I said, it's a loaded statement.
The truth that repairs the lie goes like this, the Holy Spirit will come on you and the power of the Most High will overshadow you.
So the truth being told about God here is that He keeps His promises, keeps them even more personally than anyone dared to imagine, not only Emmanuel God with us, but Emmanuel God within you, Mary, the result of which is, so the Holy one to be born will be called the Son of God.
Now here is why the virgin birth matters.
Because if what is happening to Mary here is just an isolated event, then sure, go ahead and allegorize it if you want.
But if it's the repair of what went wrong, if it's a reversal of the serpent's deception and sins consequences, well, then it must be an independent, creative act of the very same spirit who made the world and me write in good in the first place.
And that's what the angel claims it is.
Second, this announcement fulfills the temple's promise.
So the Holy Spirit will come on, you and the power of the Most High will overshadow you, Gabriel's sestinary.
The dramatic act of deliverance foundational to the New Testament is the incarnation when God came to live among us in Jesus.
The dramatic act of deliverance foundational to the Old Testament is Exodus when God came to live among us in the temple.
In Exodus, God's presence is depicted as a dense cloud.
A cloud guides the Israelites through the wilderness, a cloud descends on Mount Sinai when Moses meets with God face to face, and eventually arriving at where they'd settle.
In the final chapter of the book, God instructs Moses to build a temple where he will come to live among his people.
And when he does, Exodus 40, then the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle.
But the very same chapter also tells us, Moses could not enter the 10th of meeting because the cloud had settled on it and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle.
Now had settled in the most ancient rabbinical Greek record of Exodus is the word overshadowed.
Moses could not enter the temple because the Holy Spirit overshadowed it.
The Annunciation is reaching back to the temple to pull the temple into the womb of a human being, making the claim that the place gone is replanting Eden, the soil on which he is renewing the world is within an unassuming otherwise unimpressive young girl.
Mary's body is the temple.
The place that is overshadowed by the Holy Spirit, the place where God lives, the very presence of God so potent that Moses who spoke face to face with God like a friend, not even Moses could enter the room.
That very presence is now in your womb, Mary.
That's the announcement.
But this announcement is only reaching back.
The announcement also points forward to the spirit.
Look again with me at Luke chapter one verse 35.
The Holy Spirit will come on you.
Now, of all the gospel writers, all four who gave us a record of Jesus' life, only Luke went on to write a sequel, Acts, which records Jesus' very final post-resurrection appearance to his disciples.
And the very last thing he tells them tells us is, you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you.
It's the very identical phrase.
You see, this is Luke's way of claiming that Mary was not a divine exception.
She was the beginning of a new pattern.
The very Holy Spirit who filled Mary with the life of God himself will come to fill you and me and all who called Jesus Lord with the life of God himself.
That means the enunciation is less like a record scratch and more like a key change.
Right, if the Bible's a piece of music, the same melody carries the whole story, but there's a key change with Gabriel's loaded statement, same melody, new octave.
The Annunciation points forward to the Spirit to claim Mary is not a divine exception.
She is the beginning of a new divine rule.
And finally, what I'm getting at is that the announcement makes promise personal.
The Holy Spirit will come on you.
The power of the Most High will overshadow you.
The announcement will grow until the child within your womb, Mary, 33 years later, that you will include the whole world.
But tonight, God's starting with you, my dear, the cosmic fate of the human race is alive within you.
It's not the first time God's made an announcement like this.
Old Testament redemption starts with
when heaven made an announcement to a man named Abraham.
You, though your wife Sarah is old and barren, you will become a father to a nation outnumbering the stars and the sky through which I will rescue and renew all of creation.
All of that through a son that I'm gonna place in Sarah's womb.
And what does Genesis 15 tell us, set Abraham apart from everybody else?
Abram believed the Lord
and he credited him as righteousness.
Now we're going to look into this much more deeply on Christmas Eve.
So for today, I want to simply note that the promise Abraham believed wasn't general.
It was personal.
He wasn't righteous in God's sight because he believed that God created the world or would redeem the human race.
He was righteous because he believed God's very personal promise to him, that God would make him the father of a nation, not numbering the stars.
That God would redeem the human race through a child he would miraculously place in the womb of his wife.
New Testament redemption starts similarly when heaven made a familiar announcement, this time to a woman named Mary.
You, though you are a virgin, will become the mother of a son in the line of Abraham through whom I will fulfill my first and greatest promise to rescue the human race and renew all of creation.
All of that through a child I miraculously put in your womb, Mary.
So did Mary, like Abraham before her, believe God's most sweeping promise could really be this personal?
Luke chapter 1 verse 46.
And Mary said, my soul glorifies the Lord and my spirit rejoices and God my Savior.
For he has been mindful of the humble estate of his servant.
From now on, all generations will call me blessed.
For the mighty one has done great things for me.
Holy is his name.
You see, Mary looked down the barrel of the ancient past, remembering God's creation, his promises to Abraham, his deliverance and exodus, and she realizes the mighty one has done great things for me.
He's been preparing this role since the lie interrupted the story, and he's cast me in it.
It's one thing to believe God's promises to the world,
It's another thing entirely to believe God's promises to me.
That's so much more vulnerable.
It puts so much more skin in the game.
It requires much more courage and much more hope.
Right, it's one thing for you to sit here believing that God provided a child for Sarah and Mary, but it's another thing to believe that he'll provide a child for me after another unsuccessful round of IVF.
Or now that I'm in my 40s and still single,
or after the secret abortion that I still wear around like a cloak of shame.
It's one thing to believe that God still heals the sick.
It's another thing to believe he'll heal me.
And look, don't misunderstand what I'm saying.
God doesn't open the womb of every barren woman or heal the ailment of every diagnosis of every suffering person.
That's not what I'm saying.
Here's what I am saying.
God does make personal promises to each one of his children because he knows us personally, loves us personally, and redeems us personally.
What has God promised you?
And are you struggling to believe him?
It's one thing to believe that God frees the captive.
It's another thing that He will free me of my alcoholism or my narcissism or my consumerism or my workaholism, pick your ism.
It's one thing to believe that God so loved the world that He would send His one and only Son.
It's another thing to believe that He's numbered the hairs on my head and His good thoughts about me outnumber the grains of sand on all the world's beaches.
It's one thing to believe that Jesus is the way to abundant life for the world.
It's another thing to believe that Jesus is guiding me to abundance, that he doesn't only want to teach me and mature me and grow me up, he wants to bless me, to fulfill my desires, to guide me to joy.
Mary didn't believe God generally or cosmically.
She believed God personally.
The fallen angel that lied to Eve didn't challenge her belief in God generally.
He challenged her belief in God personally.
Did God really say, you sure Jesus is taking you to life?
Are you sure he knows the way?
He'd better give him directions, better get reach over and grab the wheel.
The fallen angel lies to you and me just like he lied to Eve back in Eden and we fall for it like she did.
Go ahead and believe in God generally.
What's the harm there?
So long as I keep His promises at a safe distance, so long as they don't get personal.
The Annunciation is a heavenly angel's announcement claiming God's most ancient, most sweeping, most far-reaching promises must be believed personally if they're to be received personally.
A revelation made plain in the words of the angel Gabriel's lips, greetings you who are highly favored.
Another translation made famous by an old hymn is Mary full of grace.
That's what the angel calls Mary with a little bit of a poetic imagination.
Greetings, Mary, full of grace.
It's a fitting title given all that Mary did to earn her decisive role in God's redemption.
What does the text say?
May Mary stand out from all the other potential candidates for the role of God's mother.
What qualified her?
What about her?
Did God find so impressive?
How did she earn his divine favor and blessing and love?
Nothing.
We're not given a syllable about qualification in the Annunciation.
It's just receiving.
She receives the angel's announcement.
She receives the life of God in her womb.
She receives the name heaven knows her by.
Mary, full of grace.
H.A.
Cheryl writes, Mary did not achieve anything.
She received everything.
Recall the deception that unwound creation at the beginning.
Take from God what he's already promised to give you.
The drama of the Old Testament is person after person graced by God and struggling to trust in that grace continually.
Abraham believed God filled with grace, but then Abraham also tried to fulfill God's promise for him by sleeping with a surrogate.
And his son Isaac
carrier of the same grace, child of the promise lies in the face of fear is reluctant to trust God through famine and favors his older brother when God says the promise is with the younger.
And that younger brother, Jacob, he is such a mess that he is named for deception.
And he goes on to father 12 sons who will become Israel's 12 tribes.
It's all a nation of people who God has filled with grace enough to share with the whole world who are struggling to trust that grace continually.
And then an angel interrupted that family lineage to offer a new name to an ordinary woman, Mary full of grace.
She was so full of grace that she carried the personification of grace in her womb.
And when the fallen angel's lie was exposed by the heavenly angel's announcement, Mary recovered both the truth about God that he keeps his promises, that he can be trusted and the truth about herself.
And I am Mary full of grace.
Heaven came down to say to her, Mary, you are not a powerless woman in a patriarchal world.
You are not a rural peasant in a world that is run by metropolitan elites.
You are not a Jewish girl squashed by the Roman aristocracy.
You are very full of grace.
Hear the announcement this morning, friends.
You are not your diploma or your resume.
You are not your last name or your family of origin or your socioeconomic status.
You are not your weight or your waist size or your desirability according to any cultural standard.
You are not your relationship status, your parenting status, your friendship status or your social calendar.
You are not your last year, your last week or your last mistake.
You are full of grace.
You are Richard full of grace.
You are Bethany full of grace.
You are Nate full of grace.
That is who you are.
And the fight of your life is and always will be to trust that grace continually.
To not merely believe God wants, but to trust God continually when he says that to you are.
To know Mary not as one lucky exception, but the first in a long line of grace carrying, grace trusted, grace defined disciples.
It is grace that found you first.
It is grace that renamed you.
Grace that called you, filled you, and redeemed you.
And it is grace that finds you again today.
Grace that reminds you who you really are.
Grace that calls you by the only name that heaven knows you by.
Grace that refills you.
Grace that keeps on reminding you of that till he's washed out every trace of that old lie within you.
as it says in Titus 3, but when the kindness and love of God our Savior appeared, He saved us not because of righteous things we had done, but because of His mercy.
He saved us through the washing of the rebirth and renewal by the Holy Spirit, whom He poured out on us generously through Jesus Christ our Savior so that, having been justified by His grace, we might become heirs, having the hope of eternal life.
Or as Tim Keller summarizes the whole story, the one who made you at the beginning is making you again.
That's the announcement.
It's the enunciations.
The whole Bible compressed into a single statement.
Before that, a flight where little Amos made his personal enunciation to the rest of us passengers on that trip I took with my boys to the east coast, I woke up early one morning
Still dark outside, my kids jetlagged from the trip.
They've probably got hours more that they're going to sleep.
And so I set off on an early morning jog to this nearby arboretum near what we were staying in.
It had snowed the night before.
And so I felt like I was running on two spoons wrapped in banana peels.
But it was magic.
It was like I was inside of a snow globe, just like a winter wonderland in this quiet forest.
It was December 3rd, right at the beginning of the Advent season.
And before I set off, I had read and been struck by these words from Genesis chapter 8.
Then God remembered Noah.
It struck me because over and over again in Scripture were told to remember God, but
Here's God remembering us, and not remembering people generally, but remembering one particular person in the midst of his creation.
What a statement about God's particular personal love.
And so I went on this early morning run in a dark snow globe, and I was just praying again and again, that prayer of the thief on the cross.
Jesus remember me.
Just I don't know, every couple minutes or so would come back to my mind.
I was just using it as an anchor to hold me.
Jesus remember me.
It was an invitation for him to meet me in some personal way that day with his love.
I was entirely alone on my little trail in this arboretum until eventually I passed this couple walking their dog and the woman kind of mean mugged me.
You know, it just like stared at me long and hard for an eerie amount of time.
And so I just thought, yeah, because that didn't feel great.
I must not be allowed to be in here this early or something.
I don't know.
So I keep on going.
And this trail is a pretty small loop.
And so eventually I'm passing them again.
And she gets in the middle of the trail and starts like blocks the way.
And I was like, oh, gosh.
I'm about to get kicked out of a nature preserve.
And she stops me and then proceeds to explain that she's a follower of Jesus.
And she just goes on to speak these words of blessing and identity over me.
And then her and her husband lay their hands on my shoulders and just pray blessing over me in the dark of this early morning on the east coast.
And a fair summary of her words and then their prayers would just be
Tyler full of grace, Tyler full of grace, Tyler full of grace.
And then I jogged off bewildered that I had been remembered by God, reminded of who I am deepest and truest, and thus began my advent journey.
The one who made you first is making you again.
There's this old Advent prophecy in Zechariah 8,
In fact, it was in the electionary just this past week, which is the common prayer book for Christians all around the world.
And it's full of promises that are beyond imagination.
But here's the refrain the chapter returns to after every single one of those promises.
This is what the Lord Almighty says.
I'm jealous for you to know you and be known by you.
I'll come and live among you.
This is what the Lord Almighty says.
I'll bring you back home.
I'll keep you safe.
This is what the Lord Almighty says.
I'll provide for you.
I want to fill your cup, serve you seconds, and laugh with you at the table while the kids play outside.
That's my message translation.
It keeps on going and going like that between every line.
This is what the Lord Almighty says.
And that refrain, it's instructive for us.
Because when we hear the promise of God spoken over us, when we hear what the Lord Almighty says, the words we pray start to sound a lot like the words that spill off the lips of Mary after the angel's announcement.
Look back down at your Bibles with me.
Luke chapter 1 verse 38.
I am the Lord's servant, Mary answered.
May your word to me be fulfilled."
What can we learn from Mary's response?
Well, we can definitely learn that the favor of God does not equal the favor of man.
The favor of mothering God will immediately win Mary social scandal in the village where she lives, legal trouble in the temple where she worships, and relationship trouble with the man that she's
Hoping to Mary.
We also learned that the blessing of God does not equal the blessing of my plan.
Mary's a young woman with her whole life ahead of her.
Surely she's got hopes and dreams.
Mary, Joseph, have 2.5 kids, start a business on the side, move to the city, maybe live overseas for a little bit, have an adventure or two, eventually settle back down near enough to my folks to capitalize on the free babysitting before enough a way that they're not showing up unannounced.
The blessing of carrying God in her womb is a profound interruption to every plan she's ever made.
Whatever Mary's hopes and dreams were, God's blessing is now an obstacle to those dreams.
And for what it's worth, this is how God's favor and blessing have always worked.
Abraham, I want you to look up at these stars.
Try to count them up if you can.
Now listen to me, old man.
I'm going to make you the father of more people than there are stars in the sky, the one whom all redeemed people are going to trace their lineage back to you.
That's not a bad legacy.
Great.
What do you want from me in return?
I want you to leave your hometown, your family, your friends, your job, and all your security and wander off into the wilderness.
Okay.
Where are we going?
I'll tell you once you're on the way.
The blessing of God is not the blessing of your plan, the maximizing of your potential or the exercising of your agency.
It is much, much better than that.
And it costs you the free and willing surrender of all of that.
Of your plan, your potential and the illusion of control that masquerades is needing to know where the story ends before the stories begun.
And I say that not as a challenge to throw out your plan and do the costly thing that God has called you to do.
I say it as an assurance that if for you today darkness lives larger than light or anxiety feels more present than peace or fear is more real than love, it's not because God has given up on you or taken his grace somewhere else.
If in the recent history of your life, you have made a mess of yourself or others.
God's commitment to you hasn't waned.
He's lavishing you in his grace even right now.
Life according to your plan was and never will be leading to life and life to the full anyway.
But there is one who knows the way and he will never leave you nor forsake you ever.
Your life.
will be every bit as much of a complicated mess as Abraham's and Mary's and everyone in between, and it will be just as eternally consequential, cosmically meaningful as those whom all generations would call blessed to the degree that, like your ancient ancestors, you learn to trust his grace.
Grace in the midst of your fear of all that you want to control but can't.
Grace in the midst of all the plans you had that now lie shattered on the floor in front of you.
Grace in the face of all that you found security in that has been swept like a rug out from under you.
The friendship that you lost, the relationship that you lost, the job that you lost, health you lost, money you lost, house you lost, future you lost, grace washing over the mistake you made that haunts you but you can't undo the people that you hurt, the fool that you made of yourself, the shame that you wear, grace that sounds like, where can I go from your spirit, where can I flee from your presence?
If I rise up to the heights you're there and if I make my bed and the depths you're there too.
Grace that fills you, grace that names you, grace that defines you, grace you did not earn and cannot lose, grace you did not catch and cannot outrun.
I say all of that just to remind you that Advent is the celebration of light breaking darkness.
And in the life of Jesus, the most significant events that all happened in the dark.
He was born in the dark, arrested in the dark, died in the dark, and rose in the dark.
Darkness is never welcome, but God is not afraid of the dark.
It seems to be where he gets his best work done.
I'm saying all this just to assure you that trusting God's grace includes uncertainty, confusion, betrayal, pain, doubt, boredom, and the love of God.
Ready to catch you.
every single time you fall, pick back up the broken parts of you that are lying shattered and remake you just like he did at first.
When Mary prayed, I am the Lord's servant, may your word to me be fulfilled.
She was teaching us to pray in Advent with our eyes fixed on Christmas.
She was willfully accepting the darkness that her life was being plunged into and absolutely certain
that light himself would don.
Some three decades after his mom prayed those words at the Annunciation, Jesus would fall to his knees and get the seminy and pray eerily similar words to his mother.
My father, if it's possible, may this cup be taken from me, yet not as I will, but as you will.
Mary embraced darkness for Jesus.
only for Jesus to embrace all the more darkness for Mary and everyone else.
And the same holds for you and me.
Whatever disruption, whatever pain, whatever darkness you may welcome in the name of Jesus, He has given all the more just to remind you of your real name.
Full of grace, full of grace, full of grace, full of grace.
So here's the invitation on these final days of Advent friends.
Go into your inner room.
When Jesus taught us to pray in the sermon on the mountain, he said, but when you pray, go into your room, close the door, and pray to the Father who is unseen, then your Father who sees what is done in secret will reward you.
Now that word room, it's more fully translated inner room.
The inner room of the temple is where God was said to live, where he took up residence.
So what's Jesus saying here?
Is he saying when you pray, find a private place and make sure you close the door?
Probably to some degree, he means that.
Is Jesus saying when you pray, go into that deepest place within you where you bury your pain, your fear, your longing?
Yeah, he's saying that too.
Is Jesus saying when you pray, go into the inner room of your body, the temple where the spirit of the living God himself is dwelling right now by grace?
Yes, he is certainly saying that part.
So here's the invitation, friends.
Go like Mary into your inner room.
Stare these three days into the darkness that you've buried there.
Name it, your fear, your anger, your shame, your pride, your ache.
Be honest with God about it.
And then ask Him to meet you there as you really are naked
and unashamed in his presence with his grace that made you first and is remaking you right now.
So I'm flying home with Amos and the other boys, the first week of this Advent season, just the four of us.
Whoa!
Look at those sunset!
Only the child dazzled by the wonder of the light that shines on all the world.
The rest of us dazzled by distraction, by the artificial glow of our personal lights, preferred to the wonder of the view outside, there I sat.
On a flight at the beginning of another Advent season, surrounded by so many who had grown too old, too numb, too distracted by artificial lights, and one objectively dismissible little one, prophetically pointing all of us to the real view.
Here is the invitation family.
Go into your inner room.
Today is December 21st.
It is the Winter Solstice, the darkest day of the year.
Three days from right now is Christmas Eve, the brightest celebration of the year, the dawning of the true light himself dazzling, all looking out the window into the dark.
all who are not too numb, too distracted, too entertained by the artificial glow to wait on the light of the world.
Do not distract yourself these three days.
Don't pass the hours, the time, the precious days of your one and only life.
Go into your inner room.
Mary embraced the darkness to carry light.
So go do the same.
Face your darkness.
Name it in prayer, ache over it, plunge into it willfully, and as you do, invite the light of the world to meet you there.
But don't give him directions.
Listen to him.
This is what the Lord Almighty says, greetings you who are highly favored.
This is what the Lord Almighty says, the Holy Spirit will come on you
The power of the most high will overshadow you.
This is what the Lord Almighty says, the one who made you at the beginning is making you again.
To live by the grace I'm filled with, I've got to continually hear what the Lord says over me, the name that He calls me by even, or maybe especially, especially when the night around me grows darkest.
So go into your inner room, friends.
Listen, there is great reward for those who are willing to face the life they're living rather than distract themselves from it and face it assured of the grace of God redeeming them.
So one final time, I just offer you a familiar question framed in a new way.
What can I do to make my life 10% more attentive these three days?
Right?
Living in that psychological principle, the growth comes when we're pushed about 10% beyond our current capacity.
So if you want to get stronger and you can currently bench press 100 pounds, you shouldn't try to bench press 200 pounds, that will collapse your sternum.
Instead, try 110, then when you're ready, 120, then maybe 140 in a couple months.
So if you want to grow in attentiveness, you probably don't start with a 72-hour water fast while locking yourself in an actual closet between now and Christmas Eve.
Instead, you probably just reflect on a familiar question in a new way.
What can I do to make my life 10% more attentive these three days?
What distraction could I eliminate?
What entertainment might I resist?
What darkness might I need to face?
What do I need to acknowledge before God?
Or do I need to confess to a trusted companion?
What can I do to make my life 10% more attentive for three days so that the next time I step into this room on Christmas Eve, I am ready to be dazzled by the light himself arriving personally
To me, like he always has, so that the words spilling forth off my lips sound like I am the Lord's servant.
May your word to me be fulfilled.
Holy Spirit, would you come?
Thanks for joining the Bridgetown family as we engage in this teaching series.
To learn more about the life of our church and how you can get involved, visit bridgetown.church slash welcome.
If you're interested in contributing financially to bridgetown church and to our ministry, you can do that at bridgetown.church slash giving.
Wherever you're joining us from, we hope this resource blesses you and encourages you to be with Jesus, become like Jesus, and do what Jesus did.